Greetings retards!I'm going to make this short because nobody's really interested in hearing the long winded circle jerk explanation about how bureaucratic government borrowing works. We've got milkshakes to put in the yard and your wife's boyfriend ain't gonna fuck himself.I'm not a financial adviser and I only half-understand my own post.&#x200B;https://preview.redd.it/ae9i9oijg2l61.png?width=628&format=png&auto=webp&s=b9273bcd806d3d3a3d8894332b8b76bc30ea55d0So, the stock market is at all-time high and interest rates are at an all-time low. Meanwhile, there's half a pandemic going on in the country because at least 14 states are planning to reopen. At the same time Congress wants to borrow a bloated $1.9 Trillion budget to splurge on hookers and blow.Happy times are here again...Unfortunately, the fundamentals of companies are starting to solidify and they don't need the easy money with the economy reopening. The economy has a government spending hangover and wants interest prices to increase before hyperinflation appears.However, Government promised a whole lotta freebies during the election and now people have turned up with pockets turned out waiting for their share.The Fed decides it's not going to raise interest rates but fundamentals don't give a damn. Buyers don't want to buy worthless bonds and the government "prints" money by issuing bonds.A classic catch-22...Congress can't borrow $1.9 Trillion unless the Treasury issues more bonds. Investors won't buy the bonds unless the interest rate increases. If interest rates increase it becomes more expensive for everybody to borrow.Basically...&#x200B;https://i.redd.it/0n9cfhbeg2l61.gifThe yield bonds are increasing on their own because of all the inflation stuffed into the market over the past year. All the hedge funds who shorted GME and AMC are now in trouble. All their borrowed shares just got more expensive to hold and there's nothing they can do about it.My hunch is today's sell off is a desperate money grab to try to keep the GME price down to keep their interest down. (At the time of writing this GME is rising)Before they were slowly bleeding out money. Now they've nicked an artery it's gushing out.TL;DR Raising bond yields means hedge funds have to pay more in interest to borrow stocks and they're doing a fire sale to cover their bets.edit: I can't spell.edit 2: The treasury issues bonds, not the fed. I was confused because Janet Yellen is everywhere. First at the fed, then in Citadel's pocket, now at the treasury. My bad.edit 3: Thanks for all the awards. I spent all my internet tokens on milkshakes, hookers, and blow so the government wouldn't have to subsidize them.