Because I'm seeing a lot of posts about $150 will be the rocket or let's get it to this price by eod type posts I want to clarify gamma squeeze and what's going on for all you apes. Should you trust what I'm saying? No probably not, I'm a moron just like you, I'm bag holding just like you hoping for that moon shot. I do like the stock and I'll see you guys at Mars though.Tl;dr if you believe in the short squeeze just fucking hodl. Call options with various strikes aren't going to cause the short squeeze we want. This is not financial advice I'm a fucking idiot holding 38 shares, I wanted to buy more but my wife's boyfriend wouldn't let me buy anymore.No getting the price to $150 by eod will not trigger the short squeezeNo the price dipping today is not necessarily the result of some short attack. In fact the price movement today is exactly what should be expected because of delta, gamma, and charm and I expect it to dip more today.There is only one thing that is going to trigger the short squeeze, not some magic end of day number, not some amount of options expiring itm, no the only thing that will trigger the short squeeze that we're hoping for is short sellers of the stock folding and starting to cover their positions, I'll get more into it below.Now does gamma squeeze help us? YES! This is like super simple shit. Every stock is going to have buy pressure and sell pressure. If a stock has higher buy pressure than sell the price will go up and vice versa. We want as much buy pressure on the stock as we can possibly get from wherever we can get it. The price going up puts pressure on the short sellers of the stock because they're bleeding out of their ass on interest payments and the price going up only makes their losses worse and worse. So now to gamma squeeze.So in order to understand gamma squeeze we need to understand delta. Now I know you guys love your fucking FD's you love those super otm cheap ass low time till expiration bull shit and probably haven't looked at a greek before in your life much less tried to understand them so I'll go over some basic shit. Now the following will all be general stuff.Delta measures the change in price of the option based upon change in price of the underlying. An option with a delta of .25 if the stock goes up $1 the price of the option will go up .25 or $25.  Delta ranges from 0 - 1.0  options that are in the money meaning higher deltas. Super deep itm options have deltas super close to 1 and that makes sense if you think about it. I like BAC so I'm going to use BAC as an example. Don't go out and buy BAC unless you do your own DD on it though.Say BAC is trading at $30 a share. I have a call option at $10 strike meaning if exercised I'd get 100 shares at $10 ie $1,000 and could sell them for a $2,000 gain immediately. This option would have a delta really close to 1. If BAC went up to $31 a share, my option would be worth $100 more because if I exercised I could instantly realize that gain (this is the intrinsic value of the option). I'm not going to go too deep into intrinsic and extrinsic value here if you don't understand it just go read the tl;dr above and go back to spamming the megathread.Options that are at the money meaning the stock is trading at or really close to the strike have a delta at about .5 so long as there is still a decent chunk of time till expiry (I'll get into that more below).  The further you go out of the money the lower your delta because it's more likely your option expires worthless.Now delta constantly changes depending on the price of the underlying and how it moves compared to your strike. This rate of change of delta is gamma. I've seen it described as delta as the velocity of the option and gamma as its acceleration.  The way gamma operates is that options that are super itm or super out of the money have very low gammas and gamma is highest when the option is at the money and this makes sense if we look at some examples.Say I have a $75 call option on BAC and BAC is trading at $30. my option will have a stupid low delta because it is super likely it expires out of the money. Say BAC moves up to $31 a share, okay we're moving in the right direction but still super likely my call expires worthless so my delta will hardly be affected by that change. But suppose instead I had a $31 call option and BAC moved from $30 to $31, my delta is going to change much more because now it's way more likely my call expires itm so delta is changing much faster so gamma is higher.This gets us to delta hedging and what the market makers that are selling all the short calls are doing. If I sell a call short that at expiration I'm agreeing to sell 100 shares at the strike price if the price is above the strike at expiration. If I sell a call that's way out of the money it's got a low delta.  Well I'm a little risk adverse there is a chance that call will get exercised so I need to make sure I have enough shares to cover that or at least make me feel safe. So I'm going to buy shares equal to my short calls delta. Now let's see this in action.  I sell a call option on BAC with a .2 Delta. A share of stock has a delta of 1 because think about it if an underlying goes up $1 my stock went up $1. Now my call option represents 100 shares so that .20 delta is really a 20 delta so if bought 20 shares and sold the .20 delta call I am delta neutral on BAC. say the stock rose $1 well now I'd be down $20 on my call option but I would be up $20 on the underlying stock that I have.But since the price rose delta went up because it's closer to being itm so now I need to buy more shares to get back to delta neutral. Also it's closer to itm so now my gamma went up. Well the closer it gets to my strike price the more and more shares I need to buy and the faster I need to buy them to get to delta neutral. This increases the buy pressure. Well if there are a bunch of short calls at my strike price suddenly we're all scrambling to get back to our delta neutral position and puts enormous buy pressure on the stock that is until we get to our delta neutral position. This can and does cause a chain reaction on the other higher strikes, our buy pressure is increasing the price and now the higher strikes are getting more pressure, their gamma is increasing, they need to start buying to get back to delta neutral. This has the greatest effect at strikes with the greatest open interest. This chain reaction of increasing deltas and gammas is the gamma squeeze that people are talking about and it causes TEMPORARY buy pressure on the stock, once the short call sellers get back to delta neutrality the buy pressure evaporates for them.So before where I said a stock atm will have a delta close .5 that's generally true when there is still a decent amount of time till expiration. Well the closer we get to expiration a stock atm will see an increase in that delta because there's a higher and higher chance you need to have those 100 shares to cover.   So today the short call holders at the 130 and below strikes may have had deltas lower than 1 so they didn't need to find the full 100to cover but come today the price held strong, now they suddenly need to find the last remaining shares to get up to 100 per contract. This puts buy pressure on the stock.  So this morning we saw a big surge of buys probably from those short call holders trying to cover themselves but then it tapered off because they managed to find the shares they needed and they'll just hold till end of day most likely.Now come end of day we will probably see a sell off (and we already are) because the short call holders at say the $150 or above strikes are holding some number of shares to keep their delta neutral position but as we get closer and closer to end of day that delta is going to absolutely tank from another derivative greek called Charm. Now outside factors may dictate buy pressure from somewhere else so this is no guarantee on price movement today.Charm measures the rate of change of delta compared to the time to expiration. Charm generally has very little effect on the price of the option up and until expiration. For example say it's 3:50 on expiration day BAC is trading at $30.50. A call option with a strike 0f $30 will have a delta at basically 1.00 because it's about to expire itm Charm will force the delta to that position and a call option with a strike of $31 will have a delta of basically 0 because it's about to expire otm and charm will force the delta to that position. If the price suddenly rose to $31 in the last ten minutes of trading charm will force the delta of the $31 call option to 1.00 or if it dipped to 29.50 it would force the delta of the $30 call to 0.So now as we near expiration the out of the money call options are having their deltas wrecked by charm meaning those short call holders no longer need to hold as many shares to maintain delta neutral. This selling is putting sell pressure on the stock and will drive the price down at end of day which could cause other options strikes to go otm causing more sell off as charm wrecks their deltas (we saw this last Friday).Now how does that affect the squeeze we want. Short sellers of the stock are bleeding out the ass with interest payments and have to watch their loss get worse and worse as the price of the underlying rises. More buy pressure is going to keep and hold this price up, we want buy pressure from wherever we can get it. At some point some short sellers are going to break, they'll say enough is enough I'm covering and will start buying shares to cover their short position so they stop bleeding. This is more buy pressure this will drive the price up, this will cause other short sellers to break which causes a chain reaction of short sellers flooding in to cover their short position. This is the squeeze we want and won't happen till they let it happen so just hodl. Now I may have got some of this wrong, please call me a retard in the comments section below.I do see it as a good thing when calls expire in the money assuming the long call holders are exercising. Long call holders most likely have a bullish outlook on the stock and I see as being much more likely to be hodl'ers rather than short call sellers who are probably going to dump any shares they're holding the moment they no longer have the inverse delta pressure.  
Edit: in regards to the word count my apologies, I'm used to my clients paying me by the word.